













thomas point shoal lighthouse - 2025 tour calendar | united states lighthouse society









      skip to main content
    



















united states lighthouse society








main navigation


about


mission, vision & strategy


society headquarters


society history


uslhs board of directors


staff & volunteers


uslhs mascots


preservation grants program


chapters and affiliates


endowments


society restoration projects


holland award


donate


contact us




passports


passport level of membership


get a lighthouse passport 


participating stamp locations


hall of fame


goals & guidelines


levels of achievement


collector stamp series


stamp flashes newsletter


become a participating location




membership


join or renew


matching gifts


the keeper's log


donate


international memberships




resources


lighthouse research catalog


the keeper's log journal


lighthouse enthusiast community


lighthouse technology


light lists


lighthouse inspection reports


foghorns


finding information


preservation & management


education


kid's corner


uslhs research services


in memoriam


usa stars & lights




travel


uslhs tours


other tours/cruises


accommodations


videos


past tours




donate


shop


40th anniversary collection


books


clothing


collectibles


memberships


donate
























search











p. 415.362.7255  |  info@uslhs.org









0 items





















travel


uslhs tours


other tours/cruises


thomas point shoal lighthouse


tours


purchase tickets


history


keepers


photos


sponsors & donors






accommodations


videos


past tours



















p. 415.362.7255  |  info@uslhs.org








thomas point shoal lighthouse - 2025 tour calendar






 






reservations requiredno open-toed shoes or sandals permittedas a safety precaution, no one wearing open-toed shoes, sandals, flip-flops, etc. will be allowed on the tour.the duration of the tour is 2 hours and includes a 30 minute boat ride to the lighthouse, a docent led tour of the interior, and a 30 minute return boat ride. tours depart from annapolis, maryland. the specific dock is located at waters edge behind the annapolis maritime museum located at 723 2nd st annapolis, md 21403. the vessel will be docked at the closest pier to the horn point marina.       two tours are offered each day. one at 9:30 am and the other one at 12:00 pmpurchase tickets on the calendar below. please select the tour date and time you would like to join and click the buy tickets button.may 31buy tickets
may 31
9:30 ambuy tickets
may 31
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejune 1buy tickets
june 1
9:30 ambuy tickets
june 1
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejune 14buy tickets
june 14
9:30 ambuy tickets
june 14
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejune 22buy tickets
june 22
9:30 ambuy tickets
june 22
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejuly 5buy tickets
july 5
9:30 ambuy tickets
july 5
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejuly 12buy tickets
july 12
9:30 ambuy tickets
july 12
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejuly 20buy tickets
july 20
9:30 ambuy tickets
july 20
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritejuly 26buy tickets
july 26
9:30 ambuy tickets
july 26
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteaug 3buy tickets
aug 3
9:30 ambuy tickets
aug 3
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteaugust 10buy tickets
aug 10
9:30 ambuy tickets
aug 10
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteaugust 16buy tickets
aug 16
9:30 ambuy tickets
aug 16
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteaugust 24buy tickets
aug 24
9:30 ambuy tickets
aug 24
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteaug 30buy tickets
aug 30
9:30 ambuy tickets
aug 30
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritesept 7buy tickets
sept 7
9:30 ambuy tickets
sept 7
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritesept 14buy tickets
sept 14
9:30 ambuy tickets
sept 14
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritesept 20buy tickets
sept 20
9:30 ambuy tickets
sept 20
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbritesept 27buy tickets
sept 27
9:30 ambuy tickets
sept 27
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteoct 4buy tickets
oct 4
9:30 ambuy tickets
oct 4
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteoct 11buy tickets
oct 11
9:30 ambuy tickets
oct 11
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbriteoct 19buy tickets
oct 19
9:30 ambuy tickets
oct 19
12:00 pmbuy tickets on eventbrite






  





footer


travel


uslhs tours


other tours/cruises


accommodations




membership


matching gifts


benefits




media


news


podcast


instagram


facebook


youtube




learn


education


facts and trivia


kid's corner


technology




resources


lighthouse research catalog


the keeper's log


lighthouse enthusiast community




about


contact us


mission


preservation grants program


board of directors


donate













united states lighthouse society





 



 



 



 











© 2023 united states lighthouse society / non-profit 501c3.


subfooter


privacy policy

|

terms and conditions

|

website by wc.


































