







clocks syracuse, clock repair syracuse - the clock professor
































































































cart
















0


















browse antique clocks ▾


            clock repair & restoration
          

            about
          

            contact
          





back


            ansonia clocks
          

            french clocks
          

            german antique clocks
          

            gilbert antique clocks
          

            ingraham antique clocks
          

            ithaca antique clocks
          

            kroeber antique clocks
          

            other antique clocks
          

            new haven antique clocks
          

            sessions antique clocks
          

            seth thomas antique clocks
          

            waterbury antique clocks
          

            welch antique clocks
          









































cart
















0





















browse antique clocks ▾

ansonia clocks
french clocks
german antique clocks
gilbert antique clocks
ingraham antique clocks
ithaca antique clocks
kroeber antique clocks
other antique clocks
new haven antique clocks
sessions antique clocks
seth thomas antique clocks
waterbury antique clocks
welch antique clocks

clock repair & restorationaboutcontact





















































 

antique clock repair, restoration syracuse ny 

 


























ansonia clocks










french clocks










german clocks










gilbert clocks










ingraham clocks










ithaca clocks










kroeber clocks










other antique clocks










new haven clocks










sessions clocks










seth thomas clocks










waterbury clocks













new gallery



intro



home page manufacturers










setup an appintmentthe  clock professor serving syracuse, utica and their surrounding communities including but not limited to: north syracuse, cicero, manlius, fayetteville, liverpool, camillus, baldwinsville, cicero, jamesville, skaneateles, pompey, minoa, morriseville, cazenovia, lafayette, eaton, fenner, lenox, oneida, cazenovia, brewerton, utica, warners and more!                                           we are not doing house calls at this time.                                                      315-552-1594we service wall and mantel clocks with brass movements in our shopwe require basic service be performed on your clock by cleaning, oiling and tuning before any additional repair estimate(s) can be provided.  we are not accepting grandfather clocks for service until may 2025. wall, mantel and cuckoo clock basic service includes ultrasonic/ and/or forced air cleaning, oiling and tuning.  (minor repairs included)                               $140.00   cuckoo clock with music box with or without dancers                              $180.00note: while above basic service resolves most clock issues, there is no guarantee, payment is still due for this service regardless of outcome. we offer discounted pricing for cleaning and oiling if not 100% restored!          estimates for extra repairs may be provided after basic service.                              quartz movements:note: we can’t compete with asian labor rates, if you can buy it for less than you can repair it then please do so. most quartz customers have an attachment to their clock, so don’t mind paying the going rate as they want to keep it. quartz / battery movement replacement cost(s):quartz movement (time only)                                                                $60.00quartz movement with time and pendulum, but no sound                  $120.00quartz movement with time pendulum and sound                              $140.00quartz deluxe movement with time, pendulum and sound including:two songs ave maria and west minster, chimes, gongs, bim bam, volume control, and time out features. fits the larger body clocks      $180.00 thanks for looking!                                        315-552-1594















hours




antique clocks
ansonia antique clocks
french antique clocks
german antique clocks
gilbert antique clocks
ingraham antique clocks
ithaca antique clocks
kroeber antique clocks
emperor
antique clocks
other antique clocks
new haven antique clocks
sessions antique clocks
seth thomas antique clocks
waterbury antique clocks
welch antique clocks





© copyright 2018 the clock professor syracuse, ny. all rights reserved.

 design by: web design syracuse






