














veggie revolution














skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar






veggie revolution



we write about the connections between environment, wildlife, food, and health. diet choices worldwide are among the top three drivers of global climate change and habitat loss.












thursday, september 24, 2015








mantises and mosquito spray











found this lovely in the shed and moved her outside. that round belly 
means she's full of eggs and will lay them soon, to hatch in the spring.
 yay!  we used to see mantises all the time -- now it's rare. thanks to 
urban infill and the dadgum mosquito-sprayers. a guy was spraying my 
neighbor's bushes for mosquitoes and had this logo on his business van: 
"great for kids and pets!"  i bet. anyway, mosquitoes breed in water, 
not bushes - ??? 





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

8:00 pm



no comments:
  





























sunday, september 20, 2015








squeaky bessbugs









bessbug, native to nc. sally kneidel


found this huge bessbug in the backyard, displaced by our whacked-out 
climate. bessbugs are cool - one of the only beetles that live in groups
 and raise their young communally. and communicate by squeaking!  the 
rotting logs they live in are dried out from the drought, and they're 
already threatened by habitat loss in general. i love bessbugs. i wish i
 could protect them. 

more about bessbugs




bessbug,sally kneidel






posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

8:46 pm



no comments:
  





























sunday, september 06, 2015








blue ridge red salamander! yowza!







so excited to see this amazing red salamander (pseudotriton ruber) last 
month. about 10 miles from mount mitchell in north carolina, the highest
 peak east of the mississippi.  i think it's pseudotriton ruber nitidus,
 the blue ridge red salamander. it lacks the black chin of other red salamander
subspecies. red salamanders are in the family of lungless salamanders 
(plethdontidae).  they have neither gills nor lungs, but breathe through
 their skin! their skin has to stay moist for them to breathe, which is 
one reason salamanders are more common at higher elevations with greater
 rainfall and cooler temps. the lungless salamanders are a huge family 
of salamanders in n.c.  i haven't seen a pseudotriton in 20 years!  i'm 
grateful they're still alive.

they look similar to the much more common red eft (notophthalmus viridescens). but the spots on the eft are little black circles with red dots in the center. also similar is gyrinophilus, another nc salamander that's red. but gyrinophilus has a line of pigmentation between the eye and nostril.





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

7:52 pm



no comments:
  





























saturday, july 18, 2015








yay!!  spotted a giant stag beetle!









giant stag beetle, sally kneidel

a rare treat -- a fabulous giant stag beetle (lucanus elaphus). my 
fingertips for scale. incredible!!! saw this one at little sugar creek 
greenway last week. the huge jaws are only on males, they fight for 
females just like male elk, deer, and moose. check out this video of 2 
males fighting (a different but similar species): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r34fsi2hkpy





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

7:09 pm



no comments:
  





























sunday, july 05, 2015








if you don't begin, you can't get there








saw this lovely little bug plodding patiently along a wall at a city park last week. she inspired me!

she's a wingless nymph (sub-adult) in the family reduviidae.  





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

9:47 am



no comments:
  


































the dissenter










why does this one beautiful black-eyed susan have red on it, while the others are all yellow? 



saw these native flowers yesterday, growing wild at a local greenway.





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

9:40 am



no comments:
  





























friday, july 03, 2015








world's fastest accelerator -- not what you might think!







eyed click beetle, photo sally kneidel


saw this beautiful big click beetle on the deck a few days ago, about
 an inch long.  if clicked away after one picture, disappearing into the
 brush.



the two black spots are fake eyes that startle birds and 
other predators and give the beetle a chance to get away. lots of 
butterflies and caterpillars have fake eye spots for the same reason.


click beetles move by suddenly snapping their body at the middle -- 
they do that by pulling a peg on the thorax out of a tight groove, sort
 of like pop beads. when they do that, their body flips away, 
accelerating  faster than any other animal on the planet.  they don't go
 very far, especially the little brown click beetles that are so common.
 but this eyed click beetle moved fast enough to get away from me and my
 camera.  i couldn't find it again.



thank you little beetle for letting me take the one picture!










posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

8:23 pm



1 comment:
  





























monday, june 01, 2015








bright and toxic and very busy









red milkweed beetles mating. photo by sally kneidel, 2015




if you're looking for a pretty insect that's easy to photograph, check out common milkweed plants in spring and fall for red milkweed beetles . both times i've seem these red beetles in the last year, they were all busy mating and paid very little attention to me and my camera.  on both occasions i was actually looking for monarchs and monarch caterpillars on the milkweed 
to report to the website journey north. i spotted a few monarchs last fall but this spring i have found no monarchs at all. sadly.

the red beetles are in the family of longhorn beetles, cyrambycidae -- notice the long antennae. not to be confused with the much more common milkweed bugs, which are also red and black, but are not even beetles. milkweed bugs are in the order of true bugs, hemiptera.

it's
 not a coincidence that red milkweed beetles, milkweed bugs, and 
monarchs all are red or orange, which are "warning" colors
 to birds and other predators, meaning do-not-eat-me-or-you'll-be-sorry. the monarchs and red milkweed beetles and milkweed bugs are 
toxic to predators because of toxic chemicals in the milkweed they eat. 



i think you can see the spermatophore being transferred from the male to the female in this one, a ltttle brown orb. sally kneidel

i'll keep watching the milkweed for monarchs. these unique butterflies that migrate farther than any other butterfly are declining because milkweed is declining.  the over-spraying of 
herbicides on genetically modified crops in the midwest is a major 
reason for the demise of milkweed.   check out this excellent article from slate on that subject.  monarchs need our help.  plant milkweed!  the beetles will enjoy it too!





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

6:05 pm



no comments:
  





























sunday, may 10, 2015








wishing a safe mother's day to all the primates of the world










white-faced capuchins, mother and child, in costa rica.  photo by sally kneidel








mother orangutan with newborn, refuge in borneo. photo by sally kneidel

i wish a safe mother's day to all the wildlife mothers across the world.  especially the world's primates, most of which are threatened or endangered.

primates are special, for me.  most animal mothers don't provide any maternal care whatsoever.  instead, they lay eggs and abandon them, never seeing their own babies. that includes most (but not all) fish, reptiles, amphibians, insects, crustaceans, etc. there are lots of exceptions in those groups, but i'm saying the majority do not provide parental care. that's just they way they've evolved.  to compensate for high mortality in their young, they make a lot of eggs.  it's a strategy that works, or else they wouldn't still be around.  

birds and mammals are different as a group in that they all provide some degree of maternal (or paternal) care for their young. they invest huge amounts of energy into feeding their young, cleaning them, keeping them warm, protecting them from predators, and so on.  because the young require so much effort, the parents generally have very few offspring.  




long-tailed macaque sharing food with baby, sacred monkey forest in bali



i love seeing primates and their babies. to me, primates share our essence -- they can be tender, loving, playful, and smart.  but unlike humans, they're innocent. they're not destroying the planet!

today, on mothers day, i'm celebrating some of the primate mothers and babies i've photographed around the world. these pics were taken in some of my happiest moments - seeing primates doing their own thing in their natural habitats. i am very grateful for those opportunities.

help protect the world for animals that can't fight back. work to stop habitat destruction due to global warming.  one way to do that is to get involved with greenpeace (https://www.facebook.com/greenpeacenc).  i recommend it.  greenpeace is a hard-working, dedicated group of people i'm proud to volunteer with.





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

5:27 pm



1 comment:
  





























saturday, april 11, 2015








monarchs have started their northward migration -- follow their progress!






monarchs have started their spring migration from mexico to the united states and canada.  these gorgeous butterflies migrate farther than any other butterfly, often more than 1000 miles!  they're reported to have left their mexican wintering area on march 24 and crossed into texas on april 2.  




took this pic on milkweed growing next to my house (not this year, they haven't reached my home state yet).


if you grow lots of milkweed in your yard, some may stop there to lay eggs.   



you can follow their progress on the website of journey north, which posts frequent (weekly?) updates on the monarch's progress northward. 



you can also easily report any monarch sighting of your own, and watch the dots pile up on the map of sightings.  this is citizen science at its best.  the journey north website is a great resource for teachers, students, and anyone who loves butterflies.



monarchs need help, they're in trouble due to the overuse of pesticides and loss of habitat.  plant milkweed!  it's easy to order seeds online. just google.













posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

8:13 pm



no comments:
  





























sunday, november 10, 2013







zoning out after dining out at work





for years, i took a peanut butter sandwich to work every day for lunch, and i ate it alone. a pb sandwich was particularly easy to hold with one hand while i kept on grading papers and preparing labs or lessons. i chose that route so i could get home at a decent hour. i would've eaten dog food, or nothing, to accomplish that.  


i wasn't fast enough  

the only time i've ever dined out on workdays was at a high-pressure copy-editing job that i was offered on a temporary basis.  i'd never done any copy-editing at all, so they hired me for a 2-week trial to test my speed and accuracy. everyone else in the office went out-to-lunch together so i went with them. it turned out i flunked the trial; i didn't do the required tasks fast enough. now, after reading a recent paper on the mental effects of dining out at work, i'm wondering if i should've kept to my solo peanut-butter-sandwich routine during the trial job. i probably would've done better. although i wouldn't want the job now, it might've been nice to have had the option. 


social lunch or solo lunch?
so, how does eating out with co-workers affect one's after-lunch mental state? researchers at berlin's humboldt university tested the cognition and mood of workers who dined alone in an office versus workers who dined out in a social group. they published their findings in plos one, an open-access peer-reviewed journal published by the public library of science. their findings are complicated, but the gist of the study is pretty simple. dining out socially had cognitive and emotional effects, as compared to eating solo in-office. some effects were good, but most were not! 



eating out at work impairs performance

a social meal with co-workers at a restaurant led to a calmer, more relaxed state after the meal, and a more positive mood.  nice, and not surprising. but this more relaxed and "less wakeful state" seemed to reduce "cognitive control on the performance level" for a while after returning to work. the social meal also reduced cognitive control related to "error monitoring processes." hmm. i can think of categories of workers whom i might want to be in full possession of their error-monitoring processes. medical personnel?  
air-traffic controllers? an accountant doing my tax return? a techie fixing my computer? a clerk in a billing office? a truck driver? it's actually more challenging to think of a job where cognitive control and errors don't matter.  



could improve creativity

on the bright side, the researchers suggested that a social restaurant meal during the work day could be beneficial in situations where "social harmony or creativity is desired." i can see that. discussing business deals, collaboration and professional networking certainly could benefit from a socially relaxing meal. or work situations that require a defusing of stress at midday might benefit, i suppose.

so, what should we take from this study?  the authors suggest that their findings might be relevant in designing specific meal situations for restaurants at "schools, universities, factories, hospitals, military, correctional institutions, or holiday resorts, depending on the 
overarching goal of these institutions...different meal situations may be optimal if the aim is cognitive control and exactness 
or if well-being and recreation is desired." well, yes...although the authors don't specify how these meal situations would vary.



pb sandwich works for me 

for me, the solo peanut-butter sandwich routine has worked well. not only does it save time, it probably has helped me focus and work more efficiently too. maybe in a grumpier mood....but getting home earlier fixes that.  






posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

10:40 am



no comments:
  





























saturday, august 24, 2013








making the most of basil from your garden -- all year long








ken's beloved pesto pizza, made from our garden

   
garden plots can be finnicky. we've tried planting everything in our 20-year-old raised bed, but it seems to favor basil above all other hot-weather plants.  one reason  is the increasing amount of shade on the raised bed, from trees growing nearby.  most of the vegetables we plant there fail to flourish in the limited sunlight, but the basil tolerates the shade well.



   

so we cater to the basil in summer. we nurture the soil with compost, no chemical fertilizers or pesticides. we cover the young basil plants with mesh to keep beetles from eating it. (we use tulle from a fabric store.)  mulch it with leaves. and all summer long we collect lots and lots of basil, much more than we can eat fresh.

to take advantage of the basil abundance, my husband ken has perfected a method of freezing the basil with olive oil so that we have a steady supply all year, for pesto on noodles and pesto pizza. yum!  each frozen packet is just right for one pizza or one pesto-on-noodles dinner.


harvesting and preserving the basil

periodically during the summer, ken picks basil leaves without damaging the plants, for the purpose of preserving them.  he washes the leaves and shakes all the water out, in the colander.  then he piles the leaves on the kitchen table. each pile equals about one tightly-packed measuring cup of basil.







he stuffs each pile of basil into a sandwich bag.




   


then he adds two tablespoons of olive oil to each bag to keep the basil from turning brown.







after that, ken rolls up each bag as tightly as he can, squeezing the air out as he goes.  he seals it shut and baggie of basil retains the rolled up shape; he pops it into the freezer for later use. 



  


making a pesto pizza from the stored basil

last night we decided to make a pesto pizza. we could have used fresh basil, but using the frozen basil is actually easier, and tastes just as good.







ken got out a frozen bag of basil, took the basil out of the bag, and broke up the icy chunk into smaller chunks.  it has to be frozen to do this - don't let it thaw. ken calls it "fracturing."


 


he breaks it up into smaller frozen chunks, but leaves it chunky.







while it's still in pieces as in the picture above, he puts the still-frozen basil on the pizza crust. the crust below is a homemade crust, a blend of whole-wheat flour, white flour, corn flour and corn meal.



  


after adding the basil, we top it with sliced veggies and other things on hand: black olives, tomatoes and okra and zucchini from a sunnier garden plot, walnut pieces, nutritional yeast, vegan cheese. if we use cheese, the cheese goes on right after the basil.   we bake it at 425 degrees for 20 minutes. 


it's one of my favorite dishes of all time!  i'm glad our finicky raised bed forces us to plant so much basil!

ken's crust recipe
3 cups of flour (the pizza pictured was made of a blend of flours:  1.5 cup whole wheat, 1/2 cup white, 1/2 cup corn meal, 1/2 cup corn flour)

1 tbsp yeast

finely chopped fresh rosemary

garlic powder

turmeric

1 tsp salt

1 cup warm water

1/3 cup olive oil

work it into a ball, adding slight bit more water as needed to form a ball

cover and let it rise for 30 minutes

put it on an oiled pizza pan and shape it to the pan





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

2:40 pm



2 comments:
  


































what should high fructose corn syrup make you mad?









high-fructose corn syrup is the first ingredient of this popular pancake syrup, after water. photo: sally kneidel



what is high-fructose corn syrup? is it really dangerous to your health? lots of health professionals and researchers say it is. should you avoid it completely? 
 
science writer laura bell of science news just published a great article summarizing some of the latest buzz about high-fructose corn syrup (hfcs). new research on its health effects is not entirely clear-cut, and those effects may depend on the genetics of the particular consumer. but bell's article convinced me to minimize my family's consumption of hfcs, and avoid it whenever possible.  
 


lookin' in the frig...
just 5 minutes ago, i poked around my family's kitchen looking for hfcs in our own foods, and quickly found 3 things in the frig that have it: ketchup, pancake syrup (it's the first ingredient after water), and chocolate syrup (hfcs is the first ingredient). as you probably know, ingredients are listed on food packages in descending order of their relative proportions in the food.

high-fructose corn syrup is a common ingredient in soft drinks, sweet and savory sauces, fast foods, baked goods, dairy products, and many other packaged foods. 

what is hfcs?
high fructose corn syrup was developed by the corn industry, which is always looking for new products from corn, because corn subsidies make corn so cheap and thus so competitive in the marketplace. food scientists at the corn projects refining company discovered a way to convert glucose from corn starch into a different sugar called fructose, not naturally found in corn. the regular corn syrup, containing glucose or maltose, was already on the market. but fructose has the advantage of being sweeter than corn syrup.

after tooling around with this fructose created from corn, the corn researchers came up with a new highly-marketable corn-based sweetener: high-fructose corn syrup. it's fructose blended with glucose. although not as sweet as straight fructose, it's still sweeter than corn syrup and at least as sweet as table sugar (sucrose). it can be even sweeter than table sugar, depending on the ratio of fructose to glucose in the blend. hfcs offers numerous mass-production benefits: it's not only cheap and sweet, but also very stable in foods, and easy to store and transport in liquid form. voila! a golden ticket to profits for food corporations! 


why are consumers and medical professionals concerned about hfcs?
for all its benefits for producers, hfcs is laden with threats to public health. for one thing, the cheap price of hfcs has led many companies to sweeten products that had not previously been sweetened, thus increasing the daily caloric intake of many americans. in his new book salt sugar fat: how the food giants hooked us, pulitzer-prize-winning journalist michael moss makes a convincing case that the food industry has intentionally hooked the american public on sweet, salty, fatty foods to increase sales, resulting in serious blows to our health. hfcs has provided a primary tool for hooking us.

of course, health professionals are concerned about over-consumption of all sweeteners that are high in calories. but hfcs has its very own set of red flags, not shared by other sweeteners. 


four of the 
biggest concerns about hfcs are possible effects on the liver, the heart, abdominal fat, and the kidneys. 


liver damage?
fructose from hfcs behaves differently in the human body than glucose or sucrose. when you eat regular corn syrup or table sugar, the sugars don''t move into the liver unless the liver needs sugar for energy. but fructose seeps into the liver, whether or not the liver needs it. laura bell summarizes it this way, "when fructose is consumed some of it always ends up in the liver, where it may be packaged...for long term storage as fat. it may promote fatty liver disease." a researcher at uc san francisco (robert lustig) compares hfcs to "alcohol without the buzz" because of its potential to cause liver damage. miriam vos at emory university school of medicine says certain people are probably more susceptible to liver damage by hfcs due to genetics, just as some are more vulnerable to cancer from tobacco or the effect of salt on blood pressure.

you may know that fructose is a naturally-occurring sugar in fruits, sometimes called fruit sugar. but not to worry.  fruit sugar does not behave the same way in the body as the fructose in hfcs and is not dangerous to the liver.

heart disease?
a number of studies suggest that hfcs can raise the triglyceride level in the blood, which is a well-known risk factor in heart disease.

abdominal fat?
laura bell cites studies that indicate fructose is more likely than glucose alone to cause an increase in the amount of fat in the abdomen.

kidney trouble
hfcs may increase uric acid in the blood, a risk factor for kidney disease.

see laura bell's article for a more substantive review of health concerns. 

the biggest danger 
to some consumers, all the bad press on hfcs has made table sugar and other sweeteners look good in comparison. many products are now labeled as "made with natural sugar" or "real sugar." and that can be dangerous, leading consumers to think they're harmless. in small amounts, maybe so. but a 2012 study cited by bell found that 75% of packaged foods and drinks contain added sweeteners. our soaring consumption of calories has led to national epidemics of obesity and diabetes, as i think we all know by now. switching from hfcs to sugar or corn syrup is not going to fix that. sugar, corn syrup and high-fructose corn syrup can all contribute too many calories, and in that regard, none are "harmless."

in sum, limiting caloric intake altogether may be more important than avoiding particular sweeteners. of course, we can choose to take care of our families by doing both - limiting calories and avoiding hfcs. that's my plan. 

i'm mad 
my "angry" radar is out for hfcs. some food companies are now labeling it as "corn sugar" to confuse consumers who are trying to avoid it.  such tactics make me mad.  it's one more example of deceptive labeling by giant food corporations, like the "made with real juice" labels on concoctions that are 5% juice.  or the popular "all natural" label which isn't regulated and means nothing.  i don’t like being manipulated by corporations for the sake of executive salaries and shareholder profits.  it happens a lot these days. when it affects my family's health, that really gets me steamed. 





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

12:24 pm



1 comment:
  





























thursday, july 04, 2013








ground zero for climate change? corporate culprits in charlotte










a rally in charlotte last week against a corporation driving climate change. photo: sally kneidel


last year during the dnc, i heard activist leaders refer to charlotte as
"ground zero for climate change." i was startled by that.  i
grew up in charlotte and the city has seldom surprised me.  but that made
me curious. so i decided to get more active in greenpeace-charlotte, and
started reading the websites of nc warn and rainforest action network (ran).
turns out, the culprits are very specific.  climate activists are focused
primarily on two corporate giants.



duke energy and bank of america are both headquartered in charlotte, and
they’re both major players in climate change, as in driving climate
change, through coal.  the tipping point where climate change will
accelerate regardless of what we do is getting very close. and coal is a major
cause – a cause that we could eliminate. according to greenpeace, coal
is the largest single source of climate-changing pollution in the world.




activists in charlotte. photo: sally kneidel


what’s bank of america's role in the coal debacle?  this charlotte-based
bank is the biggest bank in the u.s. and the country's top financier of the
coal industry.  ran reports that bofa has invested more than $6.4 billion
in coal in just the last couple of years, ranging from coal mining to the
construction of coal plants.  ran is running a major campaign against bank
of america’s involvement in coal. for more info about bofa's link to climate
change, see ran.org/coal. 

and then there’s duke energy, the other culprit and the focus of this
post.  




activists in charlotte "duke energy: make charlotte a clean energy hub" photo: sally kneidel


 across the planet, anxious eyes are on duke energy…because it is the world’s
largest corporate utility. duke’s stature in the energy sector is
formidable.  as we approach the climate’s tipping point, will duke use its
influence to lead the world away from the economic and social chaos of a
disintegrating climate?  the answer appears to be simple, and
definitive.  no.  duke’s “2012 sustainability report” blithely admits
to “an upward trend in our co2 emissions in the years ahead.”  duke’s co2
emissions will keep rising because their 20-year plan (the “irp”) calls for
continued heavy reliance on coal, bolstered by nuclear and natural gas. with
this plan, charlotte’s electric company is likely to maintain its distinction
as our nation’s second-largest utility emitter of co2.

so, surely duke has some clean renewables in the mix.  maybe elsewhere, but
not here. while other utilities across the country are turning to wind and
solar, duke energy carolinas plans to derive only 2.2% of its generating
capacity from wind and solar, and only 2.2% from energy-efficiency programs for
at least the next 20 years.  shocking but not that surprising, when
you understand the corporate mindset that made duke the biggest in the
world.  you see, the more power plants duke builds, the more profit they
make.  duke is guaranteed by the state to receive a 10.7% rate of return
on equity (roe), which includes construction projects.  solar threatens
this business model. for one thing, solar panels can allow families to generate
on-site power, rather than buying electricity from a huge utility.  with
such a decentralized power source, duke would lose considerable control over
ratepayers.  

ever wonder who pays for all the construction of expensive power plants with
duke’s current plan?  ratepayers like you and me. not north carolina’s new
energy-hogging data centers (server farms). they and many giant corporations
get special deals and much lower rates.  (google “duke’s rate rigging
scheme” for a great explanation of that; it’s on the website of nc warn.) 
no, you and i will pay for the new plants we don’t want, or at least, that's
duke's plan for us, as captive ratepayers. since duke's a monopoly in nc, we
have no other electric utility to choose.

but we do have a voice, and we have a responsibility to use it.  




demonstration against rate-hikes in charlotte. photo: sally kneidel


duke is right now seeking approval from the utilities commission for an almost
14% rate increase for the average residence and 10% for small to medium-sized
businesses.  (the already low rates for many industrial customers and data
centers will increase only 3%.)  the rate-hike request will be duke's third
in just four years. they’re also requesting to increase their guaranteed rate
of return (roe) to 11.25% -- a very high profit margin compared to most other
businesses. one frustrating aspect of this rate-hike request, for us
ratepayers, is that duke wouldn’t need these new power plants if they
aggressively promoted conservation, energy-efficiency, and solar rooftops
instead. 

if the idea of paying for more than your share of unnecessary plants makes you
mad, you have a chance to show your opposition. the n.c. utilities commission regulates duke and must approve their
rate-hike requests.



on july 8, there will be an evidentiary hearing at the 
n.c. utilities commission in raleigh nc, with expert witnesses testifying.  those of us who are fighting the rate-hike will hold a press conference and ratepayers' assembly before the hearing, in front of the building, and everyone is welcome. the address is dobbs building, 430 north salisbury st., raleigh.  the hearing itself is not a public hearing, the utilities commission will not hear comments from the public, but we can sit inside the room where evidence is presented and let our presence be known.


if you don’t make it to the evidentiary hearing, you can still submit your comments on the rate hike by emailing statements@ncuc.net or mailing a letter to:
public staff — n.c. utilities commission
consumer services division
4326 mail service center
raleigh, nc 27699-4326

to clarify that you’re writing about the duke rate hike, mention 
“ncuc docket e-7, sub 1026″ in your letter or the subject line of your 
email.


the utilities commission is our best opportunity right now to influence duke’s
future actions. this is the time to email them. without rate hikes, duke can’t
continue its current plan for the future. if you care about the world your
grandchildren will live in, if you care about your pocketbook, please let them know.  tell them you object to paying for more dirty and dangerous
plants.  



for more info, check out this eye-opening fact sheet from nc warn explaining duke's secret rate-rigging scheme.  also, visit the websites of nc warn and consumers against rate hikes.

 








posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

5:35 pm



2 comments:
  


































u.s. corporations spread fast-food, meat, and obesity around the globe










photo: sally kneidel



american men gained an average of 19 lbs between 1980 and 2010; american women, 18 lbs. those are among the fastest weight gains in the world, writes leslie patton of bloomberg news. much of that weight gain can be attributed to aggressive marketing by fast-food companies such as mcdonald's, domino's pizza, and yum brands (kfc). heavy sales of processed and packaged foods are also to blame, as described in pulitzer prize winner michael moss's new expose, salt sugar fat: how the food giants hooked us.


food activists in the u.s. have worked hard to educate the public on the dangers of fast-food, and have made some progress in persuading fast-food restaurants to carry a few less-fatty alternatives.

plunder abroad
having saturated the american market, fast-food corporations are now exploiting more vulnerable and less-wary territories abroad. according to the waistline index compiled by bloomberg, men in mexico, brazil and chile are gaining weight these days on a diet high in fast-food, processed food, and sugary drinks.

likened to smallpox
tim lobstein, director of policy and programs at the international association for the study of obesity in london, compares the globalization of the american diet and its health effects to the transmission of smallpox and measles when europeans entered central and south america 300 years ago. "the parallel now is the big transnational corporations also setting foot in these remote areas and bringing non-communicable diseases," such as obesity, diabetes, and heart disease. domino's now has more international locations than u.s. locations.

china a prime target
these efforts to expand markets into un-plundered territory is not entirely new. in my 2008 book going green, i and my co-author reported that tyson foods entered an agreement with a hong kong-based group in 1997 to begin locating poultry complexes throughout china, each designed to process half a million birds per week. at a 2005 food summit in chicago, a tyson executive said that tyson saw its investments in china as laying the "foundation for profits in the coming years."
china's meat consumption per capita doubled in the 20 years between 1985 and 2005, and is still rising today. yum (kfc) now has 5200 locations in china; the chinese rate of diabetes is expected to pass that of the u.s. by 2030.

what to do?
avoid supporting exploitive companies that blatantly value profits over all else, and that target especially vulnerable populations (including american children). give your food dollars to someone else. take care of your own family's health by eating plant-based foods. in doing so, you'll also be cutting down on the vast greenhouse-gas emissions associated with the livestock sector, and you'll be choosing a more humane lifestyle. 








posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

4:03 pm



no comments:
  





























friday, may 17, 2013







new study: fast food tied to childhood asthma





as a climate activist, i often work alongside people with different agendas regarding air pollution.  my main concern is climate change, but some of my fellow activists are focused on 
health effects of air pollution in the here and now -- effects such as 
asthma. at meetings about coal pollution, asthma is
 a recurrent topic. according to the cdc,
 at least 1 in 12 people in the u.s (8% of the population) have asthma. 
the air quality in my hometown of charlotte is among the worst in the 
nation, largely due to the numerous coal plants around here, operated by
 the nation's largest electric utility, duke energy.

well-known triggers of asthma attacks
you probably know that 
airborne irritants are considered common triggers for asthma attacks. 
the cdc urges those with asthma to avoid smoke, car exhaust, mold, etc. 
those warnings are consistent with the commonly-held (and accurate) 
notion that air quality is a big factor in the asthma picture. 

asthma and fast food
knowing the connection between asthma and 
foul air, i was surprised to read a recent study that links asthma and 
fast food! how could fast food cause asthma? not sure, but the link 
seems to be real. the study that suggests this connection is huge.

severe asthma linked to eating fast food 3 or more times per week
philippa ellwood at the university of auckland in new zealand surveyed food and 
health data from more than a half-million people in dozens of different 
countries.  respondents included 13- and 14-year-old students, and the 
parents of 6-7-year-olds. the respondents were asked to write down the 
type and frequency of food eaten over a 12-month period.
after analyzing the survey results, ellwood and her colleagues found an 
increased risk of "severe asthma" in adolescents and children who consumed fast food three or more times per week.  the link between 
asthma and fast food was consistent regardless of the 
child's gender or family income.

fast food also linked to eczema, nasal congestion, red eyes
the survey also revealed a connection between the consumption of fast 
food and severe eczema in both age groups of children. the study found as well a link between fast food consumption and "nasal congestion, itchy or runny nose, sneezing and red eyes" - symptoms we often associate with an allergy to airborne irritants.

how could fast food cause asthma?
ellwood did not analyze the cause of the link between fast food and asthma, but reported that "biologically plausible" causes could include the high levels of saturated fats, trans-fatty acids, sodium,carbohydrates and sugar in fast food.

the published report didn't say this, but i'm wondering if weight gain may be part of the story. high consumption of fast food is known to be associated with weight 
gain. and weight gain has been reported to increase asthma symptoms. 

foods that may offer asthma protection
on the positive side, ellwood and her colleagues reported that consuming fruit and milk at least three times weekly seemed to protect children in both age groups from asthma. eating vegetables, cereal and eggs appeared to reduce the risk of asthma in the younger group more than in the 13- and 14-year-olds. of course, it seems evident from the report that keeping fast-food consumption low could help too!

to read more
the abstract or summary of philippa ellwood's published study is here.

to read the report of this study in science news, click here.


previous post on fast food
one of my previous posts on the hazards of fast food: new studies: fast food "kids meals" loaded with calories and fat






posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

3:56 pm



3 comments:
  





























sunday, april 14, 2013








powerful new exposè: food giants plot to addict us 









the us govt and dairy industry worked together to force more unhealthy milk fat into our diets 



sad and dangerous fact: the first and maybe only priority of any giant corporation is profits. check out the documentary "the corporation" to understand the frightening fall-out of that reality. i learned from that film why public health and environmental health always seem secondary, if they're considered at all. they are 
secondary when powerful corporations are in control, as they increasingly are.

the new book salt sugar fat: how the food giants hooked us drives that message home. pulitzer-prize-winning journalist michael moss lays out an appalling picture of profit-scheming in the food industry, with devastating consequences. just as tobacco companies marketed to youth, suppressed cancer links, and intentionally made tobacco products addictive, the giant food corporations have purposely hooked us on sugar, salt and fat in order to maximize their sales and profits. 



regulatory boards in cahoots
i've seen first-hand through my activist work on coal and climate change that corporations are often regulated by government staffers who are actually industry insiders. these insiders often "regulate" to assist corporate financial goals, apparently indifferent to public welfare. after a stint on the regulatory board, they're often hired back into the corporations they once regulated, at generous salaries. that's one way corporations, including food corporations, get away with their expansion plans. 
 


food corporations enhance the "feel good" sensations of food
in his new book, michael moss describes research laboratories where food scientists work to maximize the pleasant “mouthfeel” of fat by altering its chemical structure, or figure out the“bliss point” of sugary drinks. he reveals corporate campaigns designed to market sugary foods to young children, perhaps programming them biologically to crave sugar for the rest of their lives. moss exposes strategies used to distract consumers by promoting sugary foods as “low sodium,” or fatty foods as “low sugar.” food executives confessed to moss that the processed-food industry would cease to exist without salt, sugar and fat. companies moss mentions include general 
mills, kraft, coca-cola, and nestlé. 


why do we eat so much cheese?
i heard a radio interview of moss on my local npr station (wfae's "charlotte talks") on friday march 8 2013. the thing that struck me most about the interview was the government collusion in this assault upon american health. it struck me because that very thing frustrates me so much, as a climate activist working to stop electric utilities from polluting. our state government sets policies that favor corporate profit, not public welfare.  (yes, north carolina's primary electric utility is a for-profit corporation.)

but back to my topic here: food corporations. our increased consumption of fat-laden cheese is a prime example of how our government takes cares of industries often at the expense of public health. the average american now eats 33 pounds of cheese per year (up from 10-11 pounds per person in 1970). 

 
according to moss, the explosion of cheese into the american diet began as a result of skim milk. moss explains the government’s hand in this. "starting in the '60s, people began drinking less whole milk as a way of reducing calories and intake of saturated fat. that left the dairy industry with a glut of whole milk and the milk fat they were extracting from the whole milk to make skim milk. they went to the government and asked for help. and they started making more cheese with that milk. the government, since it subsidizes the dairy industry, came up with a marketing scheme that allowed the dairy industry to collect tens of millions of dollars every year, for advertising and marketing to encourage consumers to eat more cheese, not just as an hors d'oeuvre, but as an ingredient in processed food. and so, suddenly, cheese began showing up as slices on sandwiches, as ingredients in packaged foods in the store. and our consumption of saturated fat, while we thought we were taking it out of our diets, snuck back in, because cheese is largely invisible as a fat in that form." 

largely because of high-fat diets, 36% of adults and 20% of children in the u.s. are now clinically obese, resulting in sharp increases in the incidence of diabetes, heart disease, and many other serious ailments.

what can you do?
read packaging labels for salt, sugar and fat content. educate yourself by reading these recommendations from the cdc for daily salt intake. for sugar, the american heart association recommends no more than 6 tsp of sugar for women and 9 tsp for men per day.(the average american consumes more than 20 tsp of sugar per day.) the american heart association also offers guidelines on daily fat intake. for children, ask your pediatrician, since it depends on the child's age.

to avoid excessive salt, sugar, and fat in your diet, focus on fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and unprocessed foods. in general, minimize your family's intake of fast food and processed foods. when you do buy processed foods, read those ingredients. 





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

2:02 pm



no comments:
  





























wednesday, march 13, 2013







babies learn healthy food preferences in the womb, study shows





the only vegetables that my cousin martin will eat are white potatoes. he does have some flexibility about how they're cooked, i'll give him that. baked potatoes, french fries, mashed potatoes, and tater tots are all acceptable to him. but he's quite consistent in his rejection of all other vegetables. martin's 34 now and i've known him his whole life. 
he's always been a taters-only kind of guy.

i thought about martin recently when i read an article about how babies learn to like vegetables that may have a slightly bitter taste, or otherwise distinctive taste, such as broccoli or carrots. if any veggie has a truly bland and unobjectionable taste, it would be white potatoes.

what if kids don't like nutritious veggies?
potatoes are high in carbs, but their white flesh is not known for a wide range of other nutrients. the most colorful vegetables and fruits tend to be the most nutritious and to have the most disease-preventing qualities. the dark greens, the reds, the orange-yellows, and the blue-purples. some are sweet, but 
many others are not so. most veggies that are packed with nutrients have a taste that can be disagreeable to some. and if kids don't like them, what can you do?  serve white potatoes at every meal? disguise more nutritious vegetables with dressings or other ingredients? maybe.

babies can learn to like veggies in utero or through breast milk
another option is to start introducing potentially disagreeable tastes very early. research suggests early introduction makes a difference in a child's acceptance of different tastes. a baby can become acquainted with tastes of flavorful vegetables even while 100% breastfed. even before birth! that's according to bio-psychologist julie mennella of the monell chemical senses center in philadelphia. in an experiment, mennella followed the diets of pregnant and breast-feeding mothers for three weeks, asking some of the women to drink carrot juice every day. she then later kept track of the babies when they were introduced to solid foods. the babies of the mothers who had consumed carrot juice for three weeks liked carrots better than babies whose mothers had not.

exposure to tastes in infancy can make a big difference
in a different experiment, mennella looked at babies being offered carrots for the first time. she found that those who'd eaten a variety of vegetables in the past liked the carrots more than those who'd had little exposure to other vegetables. she 
suggested that early exposure to a variety of flavors helps babies to trust new foods later in life.

mennella also experimented with babies and flavored formulas. she observed (not surprisingly) that 7-month-old babies disliked and rejected formula that had been given a slightly bitter or sour taste. but 7-month-olds who had been introduced
to the bitter or sour formula months earlier drank it happily. "clearly experience is a factor in developing food habits," said mennella.

future comfort foods may be learned in mom's arms
not just taste experience, but emotional experience too is important in shaping our eating habits. mennela said that foods we 
learn to trust while in the safety of our mother's arms may form the foundation of what we regard as comfort food later on.   come to think of it, martin's mom is a big fan of potatoes.  and she does know how to cook 'em!  on holidays, she serves a dish of potato wedges that have been doused in olive oil and baked in a a hot oven until slightly crisp on the outside. yum! perhaps not as nutritious as carrots or kale, but most definitely a comfort food!





posted by



sally kneidel, phd




at

3:36 pm



2 comments:
  































older posts

home




subscribe to:
posts (atom)













tweet this site

tweet



check out our most recent books  - click on the books to see them on amazon.com










2011 award for excellence in reporting the environmental impact of livestock

vegetarian
......more awards below!



sally kneidel, phd: 1st place winner in people's choice healthblogger awards, green living category

green living



top vegetarian blogger award nov 2011

vegetarianblogs.org



veggie revolution: voted one of the top 45 vegetarian blogs worldwide, july 2010

online nursing programs



veggie rev named to top 40 blogs list

july 2011: veggie rev  named to top 40 blogs for vegetarian college students



in top 50 vegan & vegetarian blogs

veggie revolution named to the top 50 vegan and vegetarian blogs by the guide to culinary schools, july 2010 



search this blog




















author page on amazon!

amazon has an "author page" for sally that features almost all of the 11 books she's authored or co-authored.



check out our other website, sallykneidel.com

see our other green website at sallykneidel.com. like veggie revolution, it's about health and environmental topics, wildlife, and ecotravel.  read about our stay in two indigenous villages  and our fanatical search for the wildlife of southern africa.  we loved the villages we stayed in: the shangaan village of welverdiend and the venda village of hamakuya.



most recent posts


loading...




take a peek at our african blog,  about the village of welverdiend next to kruger national park





the blog  promotes ecotourism in this south african village, which helps create sustainable livelihoods for villagers and helps them to protect their natural resources and their traditional culture. our visits to welverdiend was have been among the most interesting days of my life (click on pic).



map of factory farms in the u.s.







creative commons rights reserved

photographs and text by sally and sadie kneidel are licensed under a creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united states license.you may reprint them if the original source is attributed. questions, contact sally.kneidel@gmail.com.



our travels to biodiversity hot spots

in 2010, ken and sally took off for southeast asia. our goal: to investigate the illegal trade in wildlife that's rampant in southeast asia, and to see wild orangutans before they face extinction.  see my posts from july 2010-dec 2010. or click here.ken and sally studied in south africa in 2007 and 2009 with the director of ots, south africa. we  learned so much about the threats to wildlife in southern africa. we especially treasured our studies in two indigenous villages, where residents struggle to make ends meet with dwindling resources. read our posts for info about planning your own visit or contact sally directly at sally.kneidel@gmail.com for help with planning your trip.sally, sadie, ken and alan spent a couple of months in the amazon and the peruvian andes in 2008. check out our posts about the indigenous people, places, hikes, and wildlife of peru. we planned the stay ourselves and can help you plan a similar stay.  our peru posts of july-october 2008 all have recommendations for bird guides, nature guides, a travel agent, buslines,  taxi drivers, biological stations, and inexpensive hostels where we stayed - with contact information for all.



blog archive








        ▼ 
      



2015

(10)





        ▼ 
      



september

(3)

mantises and mosquito spray
squeaky bessbugs
blue ridge red salamander! yowza!








        ► 
      



july

(4)







        ► 
      



june

(1)







        ► 
      



may

(1)







        ► 
      



april

(1)









        ► 
      



2013

(10)





        ► 
      



november

(1)







        ► 
      



august

(2)







        ► 
      



july

(2)







        ► 
      



may

(1)







        ► 
      



april

(1)







        ► 
      



march

(1)







        ► 
      



january

(2)









        ► 
      



2012

(10)





        ► 
      



december

(1)







        ► 
      



november

(1)







        ► 
      



september

(1)







        ► 
      



july

(1)







        ► 
      



june

(3)







        ► 
      



april

(1)







        ► 
      



february

(1)







        ► 
      



january

(1)









        ► 
      



2011

(44)





        ► 
      



december

(1)







        ► 
      



november

(3)







        ► 
      



october

(5)







        ► 
      



september

(3)







        ► 
      



august

(4)







        ► 
      



july

(3)







        ► 
      



june

(2)







        ► 
      



may

(4)







        ► 
      



april

(4)







        ► 
      



march

(5)







        ► 
      



february

(4)







        ► 
      



january

(6)









        ► 
      



2010

(54)





        ► 
      



december

(6)







        ► 
      



november

(4)







        ► 
      



october

(7)







        ► 
      



september

(5)







        ► 
      



august

(5)







        ► 
      



july

(1)







        ► 
      



june

(2)







        ► 
      



may

(5)







        ► 
      



april

(4)







        ► 
      



march

(4)







        ► 
      



february

(5)







        ► 
      



january

(6)









        ► 
      



2009

(71)





        ► 
      



december

(10)







        ► 
      



november

(9)







        ► 
      



october

(5)







        ► 
      



september

(5)







        ► 
      



august

(4)







        ► 
      



july

(5)







        ► 
      



june

(7)







        ► 
      



may

(5)







        ► 
      



april

(6)







        ► 
      



march

(7)







        ► 
      



february

(3)







        ► 
      



january

(5)









        ► 
      



2008

(78)





        ► 
      



december

(7)







        ► 
      



november

(8)







        ► 
      



october

(9)







        ► 
      



september

(8)







        ► 
      



august

(6)







        ► 
      



july

(4)







        ► 
      



june

(6)







        ► 
      



may

(9)







        ► 
      



april

(5)







        ► 
      



march

(5)







        ► 
      



february

(6)







        ► 
      



january

(5)









        ► 
      



2007

(87)





        ► 
      



december

(7)







        ► 
      



november

(11)







        ► 
      



october

(4)







        ► 
      



september

(3)







        ► 
      



august

(5)







        ► 
      



july

(5)







        ► 
      



june

(5)







        ► 
      



may

(8)







        ► 
      



april

(7)







        ► 
      



march

(11)







        ► 
      



february

(10)







        ► 
      



january

(11)









        ► 
      



2006

(67)





        ► 
      



december

(7)







        ► 
      



november

(3)







        ► 
      



october

(3)







        ► 
      



september

(8)







        ► 
      



august

(7)







        ► 
      



july

(5)







        ► 
      



june

(7)







        ► 
      



may

(5)







        ► 
      



april

(6)







        ► 
      



march

(5)







        ► 
      



february

(6)







        ► 
      



january

(5)









        ► 
      



2005

(30)





        ► 
      



december

(9)







        ► 
      



november

(18)







        ► 
      



october

(3)









more resources


"power steer" by michael pollan
an animal friendly life
animal rights international
animal welfare institute
basil and spice: author & book views on a healthy life
blog review of veggie revolution
bobby kennedy jr endorsement of veggie revolution
boss hog: north carolina's pork revolution
carolina farm stewardship association
coffee & conservation blog
conservation international
defenders of wildlife
earth day network
earthsave international
ecological footprint lifestyle calculator
environmental defense
everydaytrash.com blog
farm sanctuary
food politics: how the food industry influences nutrition and health
global footprint network
grace factory farm project
greener magazine
help animals
herbivore magazine blog
home grown farming blog
humane farming association
humane society
in defense of animals
india tour operators
keep antibiotics working
kirkus review of veggie revolution
monsanto vs u.s farmers
natural resources defense council
no more bull! : the mad cowboy targets america's worst enemy: our diet
peta
population connection
predation of songbirds by housecats
profauna indonesia
publishers weekly review of veggie revolution
rainforest action network
redefining progress
review of veggie revolution on vegetarianwomen.com
review of veggie revolution, greener magazine
review of veggie revolution, the savvy vegetarian
rural advancement foundation international
sierra club
sustainable table
sustainable table blog
temple grandin
the consumers union guide to environmental labels
the green cutting board
the jane goodall institute
the lazy vegetarian
the meatrix
the nature conservancy
the waterkeeper alliance
traffic: the wildlife trade monitoring network
union of concerned scientists
united egg producers guidelines to beak trimming and forced molts
veg blog
vegan freak
vegblogs
vegetarianwomen.com
veggie revolution at fulcrum-books.com
veggie revolution on amazon.com
veghealthguide
vegnews magazine
vegproductsguide
vegsource.com
vegweb.com
welverdiend village tours: cultural immersion in rural south africa
world parrot trust: saving parrots worldwide




sadie in the grape orchard



who knew going green could be so much fun??



contributors


harlan weikle
sadie
sally kneidel, phd




site meter













 










